Usage.
======

To use the `libIStructure.a` library, add the following parameter to the
Other Linker flags of the target or if you use it in all your targets, add
it to the project. This can be found under Build Settings.
If you put the `libIStructure.a` file in a directory called Library at the same
level as your `.xcodeproj` XCode project, it should be as
`-force_load ./Library/libIStructure.a`

If you have problems, use the following instead:
`-all_load`

Under Build Phases, add the `libIStructure.a` library to the *"Link Binary with Libraries"* section.

In your `.pch` file, add the following import statement: `#import "IStructure.h"`

MVC Framework Components
========================

Consult the home page of iStructure for up-to-date documentation or install the 
.docset as explained in the Wiki.

Model
-----

A model is a subclass of `ISModel`.
It provides an interface for a resource that lives on a server.
For example a `Note` class can be used to represent a note
stored on a server. A `Note` instance represents a note that is either
stored on the server or can be stored on the server.

Collection
----------

A collection is a subclass of `ISCollection`.
It provides an interface for a collection of models.
A `Notes` class represents all notes stored on the server.

Sync
----

The synchronization mechanism with the server. ISBasicSync uses JSON over HTTP.
Models/Collections can use custom sync classes.

Controller
----------

Is a subclass of `ISViewController` or `ISTableViewController`
that can register for specific route patterns.

For a class to be considered a controller, it needs at a minimum:

* have a property called `observers` of type `NSMutableArray`.
* Either declare at least one of the following methods:

`- (id) initWithValues:(NSDictionary*) _passedIn;`


or


`+ (void) startWithValues:(NSDictionary*) _passedIn;`

Make sure that you initialize the `observers` array in the` initWithValues:` method
and `$unwatch()` in the `dealloc`.

If your controller class is a subclass of either `ISViewController` or `ISTableViewController`, you do not need to worry about initialization and unwatching event. Just make sure you call the respective `super` method.

Here is an example of how `ISViewController` declares `observers` property:

	@interface ISViewController : UIViewController {  
    		NSMutableArray   *observers;    
   			NSDictionary     *options;  
   			NSDictionary     *params;  
	}  
	@property (retain) NSMutableArray   *observers;  
	@property (retain) NSDictionary     *options;  
	@property (retain) NSDictionary     *params;  
  
	- (id)              initWithValues:(NSDictionary*) _passedIn;  
	- (id)              initWithNibName:(NSString *)nibNameOrNil bundle:(NSBundle *)nibBundleOrNil andValues:(NSDictionary*) _passedInValues;  
	- (NSDictionary*)   routes;  
 	
	@end  

In the `initWithNibName:bundle:andValues:`, we initialize the `observers` array using the macro `$marray()` which is basically `[NSMutableArray array]`

	- (id)initWithNibName:(NSString *)nibNameOrNil bundle:(NSBundle *)nibBundleOrNil andValues:(NSDictionary*) _passedInValues{
    	self = [super initWithNibName:nibNameOrNil bundle:nibBundleOrNil];
    	if(self){
        	__block ISViewController *this = self;
        	self.observers = $marray();
        	[[self routes] enumerateKeysAndObjectsUsingBlock:^(id key, id obj, BOOL *stop) {
            	ISActionBlock block = (id) obj;
            	$route(key, block);
        	}];
        	self.options    = [_passedInValues objectForKey:OPTIONS_KEY];
        	self.params     = [_passedInValues objectForKey:PARAMS_KEY];
    	}
    	return self;
	}

the `dealloc` method always stops watching events and cleans up. For example:

	- (void) dealloc{
    	__block ISViewController *this = self;
    	$unwatch()
    	self.observers  =   nil;
    	self.options    =   nil;
    	self.params     =   nil;
    	[super dealloc];
	}


View
----

A view is a regular Cocoa view. It is initialized with either a model or a collection and interacts with the controller using `$trigger()` command.
Same restriction on the use of the commands as in controllers. You can subclass `ISTableView` or `ISBaseView` class, you don't have to worry about these restrictions.
Of course, you can create your own base class to take care of the requirements and have other class subclass it.


Service
-------

A service is a class that works semi-independently. It can be UI-based or not.
For example, a Location service or a service that handles showing the
network indicator based on network activity.
A service needs to implement` startWithOptions:` class method and register for
the service using `$register()` in it `+ load` method.

The following is an example of a service:

	@interface NetworkStateService : NSObject{
	    NSMutableArray      *observers;
	}
	@property (retain) NSMutableArray   *observers;
	@end

	static NetworkStateService  *singleton          = nil;
	static int                  netActivityCounter  = 0;

	@implementation NetworkStateService

	@synthesize observers;

	- (void) updateNetworkActivity{
	    [[UIApplication sharedApplication] setNetworkActivityIndicatorVisible:(netActivityCounter > 0)];
	}

	- (id) intWithOptions:(NSDictionary*) options{
	    self = [super init];
	    self.observers = $marray();
	    __block NetworkStateService *this = self;
	    $watch(@"network:on", ^(NSNotification* notif){
	        ++netActivityCounter;
	        [this updateNetworkActivity];
	    });
	    $watch(@"network:off", ^(NSNotification* notif){
	        --netActivityCounter;
	        [this updateNetworkActivity];
	    });
	    return self;
	}

	+ (void) startWithOptions:(NSDictionary*) options{
	    singleton = singleton ? singleton : [[self alloc] intWithOptions:options];
	}

	+ (void) load{
	    __block Class this = self;
	    $register(@"net_state");
	}

	- (void) dealloc{
	    __block NetworkStateService *this = self;
	    $unwatch();
	    [super dealloc];
	}

 
The service is usually a singleton, but it does not have to be.
Services are started by` $start()` command.


Commands
========
The following commands make use of this variable.
The this variable is either class object or the instance object
depending on the whether the method is a class or instance method,
respectively. Before invoking any of the following commands, create this
local variable as a block variable:
In a class method,

`__block Class this = self;`

In an instance method of class A,
`__block A* this = self;`

Inside the blocks used in the following command, access instance variables
using the this variable and never use self. This will help in preventing retain cycles.

The context used in the following discussion refers to the this variable.


`$watch()` is used to observe events and executed blocks whenever
these events occur. There are three flavors:

`$watch(message, object, block)`
The `block` is executed whenever `object` triggers message.

`$watch(message, block)`
The `block` is excited whenever `message` is triggered.

`$watch(object, block)`
The `block` executed whenever `object` triggers any message.

`message`: instance of `NSString`
`object`: instance of `NSObject` (usually a model or a collection)

`block`: an instance of `ISActionBlock`
`typedef void (^ISActionBlock)(NSNotification*);`


`$trigger()` is used to trigger events so that interested parties who are watching these events get notified.

`$trigger(message)`
notify watchers that message has been triggered from the current context.
No data is passed to the watchers.

`$trigger(message, data)`
notify watchers that message has been triggered from the current context and pass data to the watchers. Watchers can access this data from the notification userInfo.
Usually this data is a dictionary.

`$trigger(message, data, object)`
notify watchers that message has been triggered from object and pass data to the watchers. Watchers can access this data from the notification userInfo.
Usually this data is a dictionary.


`$routec()`
register a controller for a given route.

`$routec(pattern)`
register the current context for a given route `pattern`. Whenever a route is navigated to and that route matches pattern, the controller is instantiated,
`initWithValues:` message is sent to the newly-created instance passing any data from the `$navigate()` command, and the view controller is put on the stack of the navigation controller of the context of `$navigate()`. If `$navigate()` context does not have a navigation controller, the `startWithValues:` message is sent to the class of the current context.

Example:
`$routec(@"/notes/:id");`


`$routec(pattern, action)`
same as above, except the action message is sent to the newly-created controller instance.


`$route(pattern, block)`
registers the current context for the route `pattern`.
Whenever navigating to a matched route, the given `block` is executed.


`$navigate()`
navigate to a given controller passing optional data.

`$navigate(to)`
find the controller that registered for a pattern `to` that matches to and put it on the navigation stack of the current context. If the current context does not have a navigation controller, send startWithValues: message to that class passing nil.

Example:
`$navigate(@"/notes/5");`

`$navigate(to, data)`
Same as above, but passing `data` (usually a dictionary)

Example:
`$navigate(@"/notes", $dict(@"title", @"Simple Notes"));`


`$register(name)`
Used to register a service name.
Registers the current context class for service name.

`$start()`
used to start a service.

`$start(name)`
start a service `name` and pass in nil as options.
Finds the class registered for service name and
sends a `startWithOptions:` message to it.

`$start(name, options)`
same as above except sends `options` as argument of
`startWithOptions:` message.


`$unwatch()`
Stop watching a given message

`$unwatch(name)`
stop watching `name` events.

`$unwatch(name, object)`
stop watching `name` event from `object`.

`$unwatch(object)`
stop watching all events from `object`.

`$unwatch()`
stop watching all events from all objects.


`$unroute()`
removes the route registered for the current context.

`$stop()`
stops a given service. Finds the class registered for a given service and
sends a stopWithOptions: message to it.

`$stop(name)`
pass nil as options.

`$stop(name, options)`
pass `options` as argument to `stopWithOptions:`.